

Add a "Output On/Off" so that generation can be toggled inside a
   script. Gotta be careful in doing this so that key info is skipped,
   voice/control info is sent and the proper offsets are maintained.

Add ORNAMENT options to solo/melody riffs. Most likely this would be
   an option in <>s to add things like grace notes. We could,
   probably, use the existing ornament code for this and send it one
   event at a time.

Would be nice to have a keyword thing which would let the user switch
 between patterns based on timing. Eg. if we have grooves  for
   1-to-the-bar, 2-to-the-bar and 4-to-the-bar "feels" we should be
   able to signal a "feel" switch. So, pehaps something like this
   might work:

   1. Set a key, say "4 to the bar feel".
   2. Create some grooves (Foo, FooSus, FooPlus). These all now are
      internally named Foo4-to-the-bar, FooSus4-to-the-bar, etc.
   3. Set key to "2 to the bar feel".
   4. Create more gooves ... no idea how naming conflicts work here

 Now, in the song, we set our groove to FooSus. Toggling the "feel
   key" will toggle between the gooves FooSus4, FooSus2, etc.

 Biggest problem with all this is coming up with a naming scheme which
   doesn't bugger existing stuff.

Add a multi-line allgroove command ... using begin/end is slow.

Add FF 02 copyright message option

Enhance the html groove docs to <play> a sample for a clicked groove.

It might be useful to have a "if file exists" test. Useful for
   conditional includes and things like that. Deciding what path to
   use might be a problem (current path, groove library, include)???

The -b/-B options do NOT work if the section includes any BEATADJUST
   commands.

Add a midi channel volume tracker and setter. This would permit
   midi-(de)cresc from a known (by mma) value. It's be nice, as well,
   to have an option to switch between MMA volumes and MIDI volumes.

To add to the MIDI volume, we would need a "do at the start of a
   track" command. This could be useful by doing something (like
   setting a MIDI volume) when a track is created. That's be needed to
   properly track volume changes.

Add Nashville chord notation in addition to roman.

There is a bug in the Optimal Voicing code which makes the Centering
   option useless.

To my ear it appears that that when using the -b command line option
   the last bar is truncated. I need to examine the result and the
   code. Might be a one-off problem.

