
Fix time sig event bytes 3 and 4.

RandomSeqRnd - add limit to seq option.

Figure way to emulate things like accordion chords. Need to have different chord sets for different chords (ie, C7 has no 5th, dim missing b5).

Enhance lyrics to support multiple <>s.

Add repeat line to solo option (just like we do for lyrics).

Chord-name meta-data might do with some additional settings: merge in
   an existing sequence (Lyric Chords=On SequencePoints=Chord_Foo??).
   Problematic when switching grooves?
   
Add $$ to delay expansion of macros.

Add a "Output On/Off" so that generation can be toggled inside a
   script. Gotta be careful in doing this so that key info is skipped,
   voice/control info is sent and the proper offsets are maintained.

Add ORNAMENT options to solo/melody riffs. Most likely this would be
   an option in <>s to add things like grace notes. We could,
   probably, use the existing ornament code for this and send it one
   event at a time.

Would be nice to have a keyword thing which would let the user switch
 between patterns based on timing. Eg. if we have grooves  for
   1-to-the-bar, 2-to-the-bar and 4-to-the-bar "feels" we should be
   able to signal a "feel" switch. So, pehaps something like this
   might work:

   1. Set a key, say "4 to the bar feel".
   2. Create some grooves (Foo, FooSus, FooPlus). These all now are
      internally named Foo4-to-the-bar, FooSus4-to-the-bar, etc.
   3. Set key to "2 to the bar feel".
   4. Create more gooves ... no idea how naming conflicts work here

  Now, in the song, we set our groove to FooSus. Toggling the "feel
    key" will toggle between the gooves FooSus4, FooSus2, etc.

 Biggest problem with all this is coming up with a naming scheme which
   doesn't bugger existing stuff.

Add a multi-line allgroove command ... using begin/end is slow.


Enhance the html groove docs to <play> a sample for a clicked groove.

It might be useful to have a "if file exists" test. Useful for
   conditional includes and things like that. Deciding what path to
   use might be a problem (current path, groove library, include)???

The -b/-B options do NOT work if the section includes any BEATADJUST
   commands.

Add a midi channel volume tracker and setter. This would permit
   midi-(de)cresc from a known (by mma) value. It'd be nice, as well,
   to have an option to switch between MMA volumes and MIDI volumes.

To add to the MIDI volume, we would need a "do at the start of a
   track" command. This could be useful by doing something (like
   setting a MIDI volume) when a track is created. That's be needed to
   properly track volume changes.

Add Nashville chord notation in addition to roman.

There is a bug in the Optimal Voicing code which makes the Centering
   option useless.

Would be nice to skip chords completely for a melody only section. Something
   like:
        4a;b;c;d;
        4e;f;g;a;

    instead of:

        z  {4a;b;c;d;}
        z  {4e;f;g;a;}

     Which skips the {}s and the 'z' placeholder.
 
Need a method to expand macros BEFORE passing them to the $() process.

Need a method to expand a string (1 2 3 4) to a python list [1,2,3,4].

